are you new to the world of content
creation and you want to break out are
you trying to add content creation as an
additional stream of income to provide
for yourself or your family maybe you've
heard about the booming Creator economy
and you want your own slice of the pie
well if so you're in the right place
I've been a content creator for over a
decade I built over 100 000 followers on
multiple platforms and built multiple
six-figure businesses based primarily
off of my content creation and in
today's episode I'm going to share with
you my eight biggest mistakes that new
content creators are making that are
preventing them from growing and earning
an income from their content
if you're not already subscribed I want
to encourage you to press that subscribe
button so you can get more free
educational content just like this on a
weekly basis first and foremost I think
one of the biggest mistakes that no one
is really talking about in the industry
of content creation and this one might
surprise you is you're not building an
email list any large content creator who
has turned their content creation into a
successful business or is consistently
earning an income without stressing from
month to month about creating more and
more content they will tell you that
they have an email list or they'll tell
you that they wish they would have
started building their email list sooner
and I know you might be thinking but
Brock I want to get into content
creation I want followers email is
outdated who even opens their email
nowadays I just want a bunch of
followers who are watching and
commenting on my videos and I hear you
and that's awesome and that's something
we're going to talk about in the rest of
the mistakes that we're making but you
also need to be building an email list
and the reason why is that you own your
email list but you don't own own your
followers and sure you could also
replace the word email with contact or
phone number list you just need a way to
contact and get a hold of your followers
offline because ultimately platforms get
banned accounts get hacked algorithms
change and suddenly this massive
following that you've built was all for
nothing because you have no way of
getting their attention or for them to
even see your content but when you build
an email list or a contact list or a
phone list you now have a direct line of
communication with them that you own you
can choose when to message them you can
choose when they see your content you
can choose how often how frequently and
what it is that you're saying to them
you're not constrained to only one kind
of content you can send them videos
photos text links whatever you want
because it's email you have that freedom
and flexibility and also your email list
AIDS you in your content creation
because you are able to promote your
content to your email list thus
increasing the odds that your followers
are actually going to see what you post
we've done past episodes of this podcast
about building an email list what are
the best tools to use and how should you
go about that I'll link that up here and
down in the show notes below this
episode so I highly recommend learning a
little bit more about email list if you
haven't already but first of all let's
finish out this episode of the biggest
mistakes that new content creators are
making and then make sure that you spend
some time learning about and growing
your email list the second mistake that
I see a lot of content creators making
is they're spreading themselves really
thin while I think it might be a problem
or a challenge if you only post on one
platform it's an even greater problem or
challenge if you're trying to post on
every platform you don't need to be on
Instagram and YouTube and Tick Tock and
threads and Twitter and Facebook and
Linkedin all at the same time instead I
recommend picking one or two platforms
to focus in and which platform should
you choose is really up to you there are
different criteria or different factors
that might play a role in which platform
you choose but the most important factor
of all is what unique skill set do you
have because in all honesty every
audience can be found on every platform
there are plenty of people over the age
of 65 on Tick Tock there are plenty of
people under the age of 25 on Facebook
and I know if you fall into either of
those categories you might try to argue
with me with what I just said but I
promise you there are hundreds of
thousands if not millions of people in
every demographic category on pretty
much every platform and even though some
platforms are more engaged than others
some platforms might offer easier growth
opportunities than others ultimately you
can still have success on pretty much
any platform even if you're just getting
started in 2023 or 2024 on one of these
platforms you might feel behind you
might feel like it's too late to grow
but I can promise you it's not thousands
of our club members are still growing
their Instagram following people are
transitioning what they learn onto Tick
Tock and YouTube and growing their
following or subscriber base there as
well but like I said the biggest factor
in determining which platform is right
for you should be you and your own skill
set know yourself are you someone who
hates going on camera but you love
having long lengthy in-depth
conversations with people well then
maybe podcasting would be right for you
but Tick Tock or Instagram might not be
the best fit maybe you're someone who is
great at graphic design well in that
case maybe Tick Tock or YouTube isn't
right for you but Instagram or Pinterest
are going to be ideal maybe you're
someone who is really great at copyright
and you love creative writing well then
maybe threads or LinkedIn or Twitter are
going to be a better suit for you and
your skill set than podcasting or
Instagram eventually over time as you
build systems and as you build a base of
your content you'll be able to post on
more diverse platforms and eventually
you'll be able to show up everywhere and
it won't be that hard but when you're
just getting started pick one or two
platforms and the nice thing about
social media nowadays is so many of them
have overlapping kinds of content so
pick one or two platforms post on those
one or two platforms until you get your
your feet under you and you can actually
start to see your results mistake number
three that I see content creators making
is not niching down enough now when
you're first getting started you don't
have to know your niche in order to get
started you can oftentimes get started
experiment with different things post
about different topics until you find
what you truly love but what I will tell
you is it will be significantly harder
to grow your following without a niche
it will be significantly harder to
improve the quality of your content and
start either creating ugc content or
getting brand deals without a clearly
defined Niche and if you are someone who
is vehemently opposed to niching down
and you want to be your own Niche and
you hate the idea of backing yourself
into a corner and only talking about one
thing then what I'm going to tell you is
first and foremost like I've already
said it's likely going to be tougher to
grow without one but if you are just
absolutely opposed to niching down then
you yourself are going to have to be so
unique and so original and so out there
that you are able to grab people's
attention hook them in and grow your
following without niching down
ultimately that is how you would become
your Niche but in order to become your
niche as some people say you have to be
super unique you have to be super
original we live in a day and age where
literally everyone and their mom and
their grandma is posting on social media
and so by simply documenting your life
or talking about the things you like
you're likely not going to stand out
very much if you want to stand out and
grow your following if you want to
increase your engagement and become a
successful content creator then you
better be pretty out there pretty unique
or else it's going to be pretty tough to
grow speaking of brand deals ugc and
maybe even your own offers or products
that you have to sell the fourth biggest
mistake that I see new content creators
making is trying to sell too soon now I
don't necessarily believe that you need
ten thousand or a hundred thousand or a
million followers before you start
selling and promoting on social media
media but when you're first getting
started at least in those first few
months when you still only have maybe a
couple hundred followers if you're
constantly selling and constantly
promoting especially if you're doing it
the wrong way it might be a turn off to
the new followers that you do have what
I will say is this if you are going to
do brand deals if you are going to do
promotions or offers in those early
stages make sure they are super aligned
with you and your Niche more than just
selling is selling out and I think a lot
of new content creators are in such a
rush to make money that they end up
partnering with brands that don't really
relate to their Niche or they end up
doing promotions in exchange for free
products and they don't even really love
the product or they haven't really used
it it's just not authentic it doesn't
resonate With Their audience and it's
not relatable to their Niche or to their
content and it kind of drives a wedge
between you and the few followers that
you do have in those early stages so you
can sell especially if you're doing it
in an authentic and an organic way but
what I would not recommend is becoming a
sellout mistake number five that I see
new content creators making is
inconsistency and I understand that it's
challenging early on you don't have
months or years of content to pull from
you don't have a huge following or a ton
of Engagement yet so it's not like
there's this active community that
you're super excited to engage with on a
daily basis it can be tough and
especially early on it's going to be
tough but I want you to embrace the suck
enter into the pain cave so to speak and
just basically realize that for the
first three to six to 12 months even
it's going to be uphill sledding it's
not going to be easy staying consistent
is how you get through it though if you
are inconsistent if you are not posting
regularly and of course there are
different levels of consistency for each
person and for each platform but if
you're not staying consistent then
you're never going to get to the other
side you're never going to break through
you're never going to reach the top of
the mountain so to speak and actually be
in a place where you have followers and
you have engaged and you have past
content to pull from you're constantly
going to be in a place of feeling like
you're two steps behind so even if the
engagement is trash even if the views
are in the tank just keep posting just
keep posting just keep posting stay
consistent mistake number six that I see
new content creators making and this one
it pains me is comparing themselves to
others now you can follow other people
for ideas you can consume other people's
content for inspiration or to learn hey
why did this hook grab my attention why
was this video so successful but this
other video wasn't but as soon as you
start comparing as soon as you start
looking at the number of views or likes
or growth or the amount of money that
they say they're making or the lifestyle
that they're living you have to either
mute that person or unfollow them
comparison is the thief of Joy it's
cliche to say it but it's cliche because
it's true stop comparing yourself to
others imagine if you were driving a car
and the entire time you were just
looking in the other lanes you're gonna
crash instead focus on your lane stay in
your lane that's how you're going to
have success focus on your own content
and improving that rather than
constantly comparing and contrasting
yourself against everyone else speaking
of learning and improving on your
content one of the other really big
mistakes mistake number seven that I see
new content creators making is not
learning from their own content not
critiquing and improving on their own
content yes in many ways social media is
a numbers game yes in many ways the more
you post the more you will grow and it
is oftentimes a matter of quantity when
it comes to reaching new people or going
viral but a big asterisk there is if
you're putting out a bunch of crap if
you are just cranking up the volume in
terms of how much you're putting out and
how frequently you're posting and the
quantity of your posts but the quality
isn't there well then you're likely
never going to have success oftentimes I
talk about the more you post the more
you grow and when I say that it's
because as you are post testing more and
as you are increasing that quantity
you're going to learn hopefully you're
going to practice hopefully you're going
to refine your skills and improve on
your content so that each subsequent
post gets one percent better and one
percent better and one percent better if
you post one time per day and you only
get one percent better with each of
those posts you're going to be 365
percent better by the end of the year
imagine whatever you create right now
times 365 percent that's a lot better of
a post so instead of trying to you know
hit a home run every single time just
ask yourself what can I do a little bit
better could my lighting be improved
could my audio be improved could my
editing be improved could my hook be a
little bit more powerful could my call
to action be more direct could I have
explained this sentence in a more
succinct way could I have added some
cuts and transitions here there are so
many ways to improve the quality of your
content and as a content creator
ultimately you are often going to be
judged and get your results based off of
the content you are creating so you need
to be constantly working quite literally
to improve that content and then last
but not least the eighth mistake that I
see so many content creators making is
just giving up too soon it's going to be
tough if you began content Creation in
2003 there weren't that many content
creators it was relatively easy to stand
out it was much easier to grow a
following if you started content
Creation in 2003 then you've had 20
years on social media and you've likely
just organically reached a lot of people
and grown a following in that time but
you can't go back in time and start then
so the only other option that you have
is starting right now today and so I
want to encourage you if you are someone
who has recently gotten started or
you're getting started after watching
this video don't give up just keep going
just keep growing just keep posting just
keep working on your craft and refining
your skills eventually you'll have a
video pop off eventually you'll have a
post that goes viral where you'll meet
that connection that brings you to to
the next level you'll unlock that secret
that helps you stay consistent you'll
figure out what your Niche is it's never
going to be easy early on WE recognize
that in pretty much every other area of
life it's not going to be easily on your
first day learning to speak a new
language is probably not going to be
very good your first day learning to
play piano is probably going to be
pretty trash your first day learning to
play basketball is not going to be
LeBron James and Michael Jordan level
but if you continue to practice you will
grow then you will get better I know on
social media we are often after instant
results and one of the beauties of
social media is that you can have great
results without waiting 10 to 15 to 20
years but with that being said you're
still going to have to wait a little bit
you're still going to have to wait at
least a few weeks if not a few months if
not maybe even a few years for the
success you're looking for but
ultimately the people who are successful
as content creators are the people who
just didn't give up they didn't let the
haters affect them they didn't let their
family and friends who doubted them
affect them they didn't let changes in
engagement and the algorithms and the
followers and the platforms they didn't
let that get to them they just stayed
consistent and they didn't give up on
themselves thank you so much for
listening today if you are a new content
creator let me know down in the comments
which of these eight tips did you find
most beneficial what is going to be your
platform of focus moving forward are you
sticking with Tick Tock are you going
with YouTube Instagram Twitter threads
whatever it may be let me know down in
the comments and thank you so much for
listening today as always happy
networking wow
[Music]